Update IRON Guide (#2034)
Xilinx/mlir-aie: programming_guide/section-1/README.md

# <ins>Section 1 - Basic AI Engine building blocks</ins>

> When we program the AIE-array, we need to declare and configure its structural building blocks: compute tiles for vector processing, memory tiles as larger level-2 shared scratchpads, and shim tiles supporting data movement to external memory. In this programming guide, we will utilize the IRON Python bindings to describe our design at different levels of granularity. Later on, we will explore vector programming in C/C++ when we focus on kernel programming.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When we program the AIE-array, we need to declare and configure its structural building blocks: compute tiles for vector processing, memory tiles as larger level-2 shared scratchpads, and shim tiles supporting data movement to external memory. In this programming guide, we will utilize the IRON Python library to describe our design at different levels of granularity. Later on, we will explore vector programming in C/C++ when we focus on kernel programming.
```

## <ins>Walkthrough of Python source file (aie2.py)</ins>

Let's first look at a basic Python source file (named [aie2.py](./aie2.py)) for an IRON design at the highest level of abstraction:

> At the top of this Python source, we include modules that define the IRON language bindings `aie.iron` for high-level abstraction constructs, resource placement algorithms `aie.iron.placers` and target architecture `aie.iron.device`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
At the top of this Python source, we include modules that define the IRON libraries `aie.iron` for high-level abstraction constructs, resource placement algorithms `aie.iron.placers` and target architecture `aie.iron.device`.
```

```python
buff = GlobalBuffer(data_ty, name="buff")

# Task for the core to perform
def core_fn(buff_in):
    for i in range_(data_size):
        buff_in[i] = buff_in[i] + 1

# Create a worker to perform the task
my_worker = Worker(core_fn, [buff], placement=Tile(0, 2))
```
In the previous code snippet it was mentioned that the data movement between Workers needs to be configured. This does not include data movement to/from the AIE array which is handled inside the `Runtime` sequence. The programming guide has a dedicated [section](../section-2/section-2d/) for runtime data movement. In this example, as we do not look in-depth at data movement configuration, the runtime sequence will only start the Worker.
```python
# Runtime operations to move data to/from the AIE-array
rt = Runtime()
with rt.sequence(data_ty, data_ty, data_ty) as (_, _, _):
    rt.start(my_worker)
```

> All the components are tied together into a `Program` which represents all design information needed to run the design on a device. It is also at this stage that the previously unplaced Workers are mapped onto AIE tiles using a `Placer`. Currently, only one placement algorithm is available in IRON, the `SequentialPlacer()` as is seen in the code snippet below. Other placers can be added with minimal effort and we encourage all users to experiment with these tools which can be found in [placers.py](../../python/iron/placers.py). Finally, the program is printed to produce the corresponding MLIR definitions from the IRON AIE bindings.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
All the components are tied together into a `Program` which represents all design information needed to run the design on a device. It is also at this stage that the previously unplaced Workers are mapped onto AIE tiles using a `Placer`. Currently, only one placement algorithm is available in IRON, the `SequentialPlacer()` as is seen in the code snippet below. Other placers can be added with minimal effort and we encourage all users to experiment with these tools which can be found in [placers.py](../../python/iron/placers.py). Finally, the program is printed to produce the corresponding MLIR definitions from the IRON library and python language bindings.
```

```python
# Create the program from the device type and runtime
my_program = Program(NPU1Col4(), rt)

# Place components (assign them resources on the device) and generate an MLIR module
module = my_program.resolve_program(SequentialPlacer())

# Print the generated MLIR
print(module)
```

> **NOTE:**  All components described or mentioned above inherit from the `resolvable` interface which defers the creation of MLIR operations until their `resolve()` function is called. That is the task of the `resolve_program()` function of the `Program` which will raise an error if one of the IRON classes does not have enough information to generate its MLIR equivalent.

## <ins>Walkthrough of Python source file (aie2_placed.py)</ins>

IRON also enables users to describe their design at the tile level of granularity where components are explicitly placed on AIE tiles using coordinates. Let's again look through a basic Python source file (named [aie2_placed.py](./aie2.py)) for an IRON design at this level.

> At the top of this Python source, we include modules that define the IRON AIE language bindings `aie.dialects.aie` and the mlir-aie context `aie.extras.context`, which binds to MLIR definitions for AI Engines.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
At the top of this Python source, we include modules that define the IRON AIE libraries `aie.dialects.aie` and the mlir-aie context `aie.extras.context`, which binds to MLIR definitions for AI Engines.
```
